there's two things about delivering a
message it's how you say it which is
important what is what you say which is
absolutely critical because eventually
you're delivering a message content is
king so what you say is absolutely
critical and you must be on top of the
message that you have to deliver several
times I've seen situations where
executives are very busy with what
they're doing and they're suddenly
called in and said and don't listen
there's a conference you cannot go to
the conference here's a message you've
got to record a message that will be
played out at the conference or at the
off-site or wherever you are and
inevitably if the cameraman who's
carrying the script or it's a little kid
from an event management company or an
advertising agency that comes and says
here is your script now please say it
and it's amazing how many times I've
seen people look at it and say oh oh my
god what have I got here and then they
do one line and then they stumble they
do another line and then they stumble
and inevitably the message that goes
across is you record one line and you
pause then you remember another line and
then you pause and the cameraman or the
editor have then got to join those two
together have you been at conferences
where you see these little jump cuts
where someone saying something that jump
and he's saying something else that's
what happens if you're forced to recite
lines that somebody else has written for
you the best thing to do therefore is to
write them yourself because each of us
has a certain way of speaking there are
words that we like there are some words
we don't like there are some words we
are uncomfortable with inevitably you'll
come and stumble on those so it's best
write it yourself now when you write it
yourself you can also run the risk of
writing it like you're writing a press
release with lots of facts and it looks
very nice but when it comes to actually
saying it it's a completely different
experience so when you are writing for
speaking as opposed to writing for
reading keep it very simple
remember the key messages that you've
got to deliver and focus on those don't
try and remember the whole sentence
don't try and get into a recitation
competition here's an example for you if
the script that's been given to you says
the thrust of our new initiative is to
explore rural markets which will allow
us to increase volumes and also to sell
our products at new price points now the
language is somebody else's you might
end up having to remember that
first of all new initiative is where as
the important point is to say explore
rural markets increase volume sell at
new price points so you can find your
own way at coming to explore rural
markets you can say the reason we're all
gathered here is because they're trying
to explore rural markets or one of the
objectives of all of us being here is to
explore rural markets so you can find
your own words to get to the key message
that you want to deliver what this does
is it ensures that your key messages are
remembered you can also use the help of
technology
write down your key messages on an iPad
or have someone holding it just behind
the camera don't look up like that where
the words are being displayed we look at
the words and then speak it in your own
way the worst thing you can actually do
at a conference is just go there take a
prepared script and read it out I've
been at a conference with a major
company where the head of that
particular division came in pulled out
his script and read in a wonderful
clipped accent give a long lecture all
that the company had to do without once
looking up and the reason he had to do
that was he hadn't written a script
somebody else had done it for him he
couldn't be expected to remember the
entire script so all he did was just
read that and then he turn the page and
then you turn the page and was over he
said thank you very much in that period
if the entire hall had got empty nobody
would have known I've also seen people
take an iPad and start reading out of an
iPad and then trying to scroll down and
scroll up no it doesn't work just as
what you say is important how you say is
important the combination of the two
will allow you to deliver the message
that is very important it allows you to
deliver a message that is memorable and
it allows you to deliver a message that
is interesting make the start of your
message and the end of your message very
interesting because then that will set
the mood